Finding a person to fit on your team is a challenge, and only gets worse when you are trying to figure out what a Team's culture is, or find someone for another Development Team. This section will help with the 'soft' skills: those that transfer from position to position – and may not seem to have any real relevance to working any job, in some Applicant 's eyes. 

In-Office Skills: (THIS AREA NEEDS HELP)

One big item with any Development Team is the way they work: some places have large teams, divided into smaller tasks, others have small teams working on a single project. Ignoring the positives and negatives of each approach, you need to look at how the Applicant works best, and in what role. An Applicant that does not enjoy a Development Team's approach is an unhappy worker, Make sure that the specifics of a Development Team is there, and listen well to the way the Applicant responds to the questions on team work.

	Work Areas

Some of the smaller items-- to someone who is not a member of a Development Team – can have a huge effect on the suitability of an Applicant to a particular Team. The work space is a common question: some Applicants feel an open floor plan is wonderful for most of the time, but would prefer to have a quiet area available to work on a particular section. A look at how well an Applicant works in specific environments will go a long way to a Recruiter finding a successful match for their Applicant, and something that each Applicant needs to think about in terms of “I have to work in this environment every day: how will I feel about it after 6 months, or a year?”

Any eyesight or physical issues of sitting need to be noted, and addressed by a potential Development Team. Certain Development Teams already address these, using standing desks, large or multiple monitors, and other options.

	Team Culture

Each Development Team has its own, for lack of a better word, culture. This is everything from the way meetings are scheduled, through the way productivity is measured (and rewarded),to the in-office socialization vs responsibilities. This also includes how open the Team is to a mentor, either in that specific Team, or outside of it.

Some of the many tasks in Development Teams will include the rotation of duties, and this needs to be addressed. Are you, the Applicant, comfortable in taking on multiple roles? Is there an area where you feel weak? Recruiters can use these answers to find a position where the Applicant has the opportunity to learn from a mentor, and gain the skills and confidence, without placing them on a Development Team that needs someone who can shine in that area. 

Food and music are a consideration in each Development Team's culture. Some Teams allow headphones to listen to music, while others may have a policy against eating at a desk: especially a major meal. These are small considerations to point out to an Applicant you are interested in: if they are distracted by having music that can be heard, it can be mentioned, and worked around.

	Attitudes and Activities

Most Applicants come to either a Recruiter or a Development Team with a positive attitude: this isn't what needs to be looked at. Can the Applicant pick up a new language or tool, or are they resistant to the idea? Either way, can they articulate their position, and be willing to listen to the other side? This is a tough one to judge, but any Applicant needs to be aware of their own thoughts on this.

As the world grows more connected, many Development Teams are taking on activities, both in- and out of office to support certain charities, or ideals they would like to see grow. Some of these may be occasional, such as a yearly game for charity, or more time-intensive, like working with or teaching at a coding camp. Applicants have to be aware of these activities, and have the opportunity to choose if they can participate in them. There are good reasons for choosing not to participate, and a Development Team needs to be honest about the 'voluntary' nature of these activities.

Team parties, such as monthly birthday celebrations, are also a part of the Development Team's culture. These, and other work options, should be mentioned in the final interview stages.

	Time and Timing

The time down system is occasionally odd in a Development Team environment: there may be times that everyone works 'late' in order to get something done, or someone who has just finished  fixing a large problem may want some time to re-adjust to the normal workload. How this is handled is highly individual: a Development Team will have its own way of taking care of these things. Each Applicant needs to subtly state their requirements in this area, and Recruiters need to keep this in mind when choosing between qualified Development Teams for a better 'match.'

Meetings, however needed, do require an interruption of the work flow, and then a reset into the work. How each Development Team handles these meetings, and other activities, such as sprints (see project management) is unique to the structure of the team, and can change over time. Allowing Applicants, once hired, to come in early or stay late in order to avoid the work flow interruption; having them scheduled first thing in the morning(s); or on a more random basis depends not solely on the Development Team, but on the requirements of the project. Applicants will want to know this information, so it should be presented in the later stages of an interview, along with the other activities of the Development Team.


Life Skills:
The skills that develop outside the office environment are also important, and can have an influence on what type of Development Team would be the best match. Besides the specifics listed below, your leisure activities can give a specific direction to an Applicant's career path.

	Avocations

Everyone has a career that they would love to go into, or a hobby that would be a full-time occupation if it were feasible. Mentioning the skills gained here: everything from research skills to manual dexterity and planning is a potential plus in a career. These skills, plus the general focus of the avocation, may direct a path that a Recruiter or Applicant can build on. If it has become nearly a business, don't forget the skills shown there. 

	Hobbies

Similar to the avocations, hobbies will show the level of commitment to a goal, and potentiality the skill to work on several projects at the same time. As an Applicant, this is a good way to look at how much time you need to switch projects, and what types of situations assist you in solving problems. In addition, you may find that a Recruiter or Development Team member has a hobby along the same lines as you do, and this provides another level of connection to the Team.

	Side Projects

As most people on  Development Team know, side projects are a way to keep skills fresh, learn new ones, or simply have fun with the current set of skills. May of these projects, done either during employment or the learning process, can show skills that are not in current use. And the changes made over time can log the upgrading of skills as languages and tools evolve, as well as the use of different tools to accomplish a more-polished final result.

Some of these may be small games, but the skill used to solve the problems of keeping track of elements, displaying scores and items, and avoiding conflict in two or more items in the same place are needed elements in a Development Team. As well, looking at the code by a member of the Development Team will catch potential conflicts with Team practice, such as “Tabs vs Spaces”, the naming of variables, and the general 'flow' of the program and comments in the code itself.

Showcasing Soft Skills

All of this looks to an Applicant like it should have its own page on a resume that likely is already too long or over-complex. And neither the Recruiter or the Development Team is going to want all the details for an initial interview. So what to do?

The simple way, especially for side projects and outstanding volunteer work, is to list it in its own section. This allows a select few to shine. (MAY NEED ADJUSTED) The rest can be placed in the chronological order- if appropriate – or kept to mention during the interview itself. However, unless there are no other relevant skills, should these dominate the interview.

Many of the above items are ones any Recruiter works with on a daily basis, but an Applicant or Development Team member may not have looked for the skills shown in this area. Be aware of these as skills, and don't let your instinct to show off, nor dismiss them as 'just a hobby' prevent you from letting these talents have their own, proper place.
